(tires screeching)
(engine revving)
(car horns blaring)
♪ ♪
Come on, come on.
(tires screeching)
(grunting and groaning)
♪ ♪
No, no.
Please, don't.
(shell casings clattering)
(gunshot)
(engine starts)
♪ NCIS: LA 3x23 ♪
Sans Voir (1)
Original Air Date on May 15, 2012
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪
(indistinct chatter)
CALLEN:
That's because of what?
(groans)
Big guy overdo it
this weekend?
Yeah.
Jeet Kune Do.
Trying to learn
some new moves.
Might need to take
it down a notch.
I know what
you're talking about.
Did a little weight
training on Saturday,
mountain biking,
rock climbing on Sunday.
Takes a toll on the body.
I thought you did Reiki
on the weekends.
Funny you should mention it.
I actually do Reiki
on the weekends,
but after all the extremely
grueling punishment
I put my body through.
Reiki-- that's New Age
body massage?
If you call aura
manipulation massage.
KENSI:
Reiki is actually
when the practitioner places
his hands on the client's body,
allowing his own
life force energy
to... heal them.
And you pay money for that?
DEEKS:
I'll have you know
that Reiki is an ancient art
with incredible benefit
for those with an open mind.
And an open wallet.
I should've
expected this from
people not in touch with
their inner connectedness.
Oh, come on, Deeks.
I'm just giving you a
hard time, all right?
I was certified in
Reiki two years ago.
Really?
SAM:
I'll show you.
No, we don't have to do this.
I want to.
I don't think that
I want to be...
Just relax, relax.
All right.
Close your eyes.
Feel the energy.
DEEKS:
This is how it starts.
SAM:
You feel that?
Can't say that I do.
You sure?
Yeah, nothing.
How about now?
Ah! S... No!
(Deeks sighs)
How is that exactly
supposed to be healing?
By waking up that thing
between your ears
that actually believes
that crap.
(calling whistle)
I'm hearing whistling.
It's the wind blowing
through your wallet.
ERIC: Conrad Weaver
and Earl Mayfield.
Both were employees
of Point Blank Gun Shop
and Shooting Range
in the Valley.
Point Blank is an FFL.
CALLEN:
Federal Firearms
Licensed facility.
Many of which have been
responsible for a large amount
of illegal guns finding their
way into the hands of criminals.
Rich Mayfield
is Point Blank's
proprietor.
Bet he doesn't
do Reiki.
NELL:
Ex-Army ranger
and suspected mercenary--
Earl Mayfield
was Rich's nephew.
Also employed are
Rich's brother Blake,
cousin Neil
and stepdaughter Mara.
The family that shoots together
stays together?
NELL:
LAPD determined that
Weaver was shot
by Mayfield,
who was then shot with
a high-caliber round.
Rich Mayfield was Army.
Either of these two
Navy or Marines?
Negatory.
The Mayfields have hired
another employee recently.
Renko.
For whatever reason, Special
Agent Renko is undercover at
the Point Blank Gun Shop.
You don't know why?
In the words of Mr. Beale,
that would be a negatory.
What about his case handler?
I'm trying to find
out who that is.
But the Point Blank
investigation is not
our immediate concern.
Mr. Beale?
There was a text on
Earl Mayfield's cell phone
suggesting that Renko
was not who he said he was.
NELL: We sent Renko a coded
message on his cell,
but he hasn't responded.
HETTY: He's working at Point
Blank as we speak.
Before his cover's blown,
we should get in there
and get him out.
No smoking,
no food, no drinks. (gunfire)
Eye and ear protection
are mandatory.
Your weapon must be
pointed downrange
at all times.
Okay.
(grunts)
It's a lot heavier
than I thought.
Honey, maybe you should
start off with something
just a little bit
easier to handle.
That's probably
a good idea.
Why don't you
take this one.
Ooh! Much lighter.
DEEKS: Little Miss
Gun-Shy freaks out
every time she shoots
somebody in Call of Duty.
(laughs)
All right, put it up,
nice and easy.
Don't anticipate, 'cause
that's when you blink.
Thank you.
Just trying to make
sure you had
the right form there, hon bun.
(chuckles)
Easy. Feel...
(grunts)
Just making sure the recoil
doesn't smack the gun
back into your forehead,
"hon bun."
See Renko?
No, can't say
that I do.
That's it?
(laughs):
That was fun.
What can I do for you?
Looking to
buy a nine.
Anything in particular?
Glock, maybe.
Not a problem.
Time to break
up with Martha.
That's too bad.
I was just about to make
a dishonest woman out of her.
(gunfire continues
in shooting range)
He's clear.
Where you going, Hal?
(chuckles)
Got a burst pipe, Rich.
Just got a text.
My kitchen's flooding.
I should be back
in an hour.
Uh-huh. Pipe can wait.
Need to have a
word with you.
Now.
We may have
a problem.
(over earpiece):
I think Renko's been made.
RICH:
Blake! Blake!
BLAKE:
Rich, what's going on?
Federal agents!
RICH:
Blake, help!
(grunts)
(gunshot)
(gasps)
SAM:
We're clear.
I hope this doesn't
interrupt any plans you had.
It could've
been tomorrow.
Watch your head.
Well, I guess I should be
thankful to somebody
for saving my bacon.
Oh, yeah?
Who might that be, Renko?
Hmm, let me see.
Callen, Deeks, Sam--
definitely Sam.
Think that's about it.
Really?
Yeah.
There's no one else
you could possibly
think of?
There might be somebody, but I
can't seem to put my finger...
(gunshot)
Look out!
Shots fired!
Get down! Take cover!
Renko? Man down!
Renko!
Renko.
Renko, stay with me, buddy.
Don't do this to me.
Come on.
Stay with me.
WOMAN (over PA): Dr. Chan
to ICU. Dr. Chan to ICU.
The bullet entered the maxilla,
passed through the sinus
and severed the carotid artery.
He's critical.
He would've bled to death
if your team hadn't acted fast.
How long before we know which
way the scales are tipping?
We'll keep you updated as
soon as we know anything more.
Thank you, Doctor.
Is he gonna be okay?
Going into surgery now.
What happened out there?
We're not sure.
What do you mean
you're not sure?
You were there,
weren't you, Mr. Callen?
Did you secure
the facility?
We cleared the shop
and the range.
SAM:
Renko confirmed
we had everyone covered.
But you didn't.
I mean,
obviously there were
areas of vulnerability other
than the shop and the range.
Hetty.
I expect to see you all
back at OPS,
ASAP.
Not me.
Someone should
stay with Renko.
Yes, Miss Blye
of course you're right.
DEEKS: I think maybe I
should stay with her.
One agent is
more than sufficient, Mr. Deeks,
thank you.
CALLEN:
Do you have an update
on Rich Mayfield's
cousin?
Neil Barlow.
Still stable but unconscious
in the ICU.
Hetty still hasn't been able to
identify Renko's case handler.
Rich's stepdaughter
is our only source of intel.
What do we have on her?
Mara White--
26 years old,
no criminal record.
Rich Mayfield married
her mother two years ago.
She's been working as
the bookkeeper at Point Blank
since last summer.
Bookkeeper?
Our guest in
the boat shed should
be able to shed some
light on Point Blank's
dirty little secrets.
And if she won't,
maybe her hard drive will.
Okay, Eric,
bring up the footage.
Let's see if we missed anything.
Is this the only camera angle?
Yeah, only one security cam
in the parking area.
(gunshot over speakers)
ERIC: Zoom in a little.
(gunshot)
Well, from the angle
and the way Renko dropped,
that shot had to come from
the hills somewhere.
Nearest place the shooter could
have been and not been seen
is at least 300,
400 yards away.
The shooter was trained.
I was on my way
to D.C. when I heard.
What happened?
Why don't you ask them.
Damn.
Why the hell can't I access
Agent Renko's case file?
You were his handler.
I still like to keep my hand
on the tiller once in a while.
Oh...
But as assistant director,
the agency tends to take a
dim view on that sort of thing.
So you covered your ass.
Mm.
It seemed like the prudent
thing to do, considering.
What was Renko working?
We got a tip that Rich
Mayfield's operation was dirty.
That he might be selling
assault rifles to a middle man
who was gonna turn them around
to a homegrown terrorist cell.
Did the tip pan out?
Renko was only under
three weeks.
He was still
gaining Rich's trust.
But he did allude
to a special client
he was gonna be
taking care of soon.
And the sale is still pending?
It was supposed to go down
in the next day or two.
We don't know anything
else about the buyer.
He was gonna text Rich
with a time and a place.
But maybe he's
still in the dark about
what happened today.
We had information
that made us believe
that Agent Renko's cover
was in jeopardy.
Would you have preferred
that we let that play out
for the sake
of the investigation?
Of course not.
But it didn't change
the outcome, did it?
You were his handler.
Why weren't you handling him?
I told you,
I was on my way to D.C.
There was an urgent situation.
A little advice,
Assistant Director.
The next time you feel the urge
to put your hand on the tiller,
it might be prudent
to actually keep your hand
on the tiller.
Otherwise, the ship
tends to veer off course.
WOMAN: Blood pressure is 120/80.
(indistinct PA announcement)
Mr. Renko's still in surgery,
but it's going better
than we hoped.
He's not completely out
of danger, but he should
be in recovery soon.
Thank you very much.
(phone ringing nearby)
WOMAN (over PA): Dr. Kaiser to Radiology.
Dr. Kaiser to Radiology.
California EDD records
indicate there are
two other employees
at Point Blank.
From the security cam
footage,
neither appeared to be
at work when Renko was shot.
Paul Manning
was arrested
yesterday by LAPD for DUI.
He's still in holding
at County downtown.
ERIC:
And Walter Henderson, 32--
arrests for assault,
robbery, grand theft
and illegal
firearms possession.
A real Renaissance man.
ERIC:
And here's the kicker.
While in the Army, he was
enrolled in the sniper school
at Fort Benning,
Georgia.
NELL:
But he washed out.
He received
a bad conduct discharge
for multiple counts of
insubordination
and assault.
A Renaissance man
with anger issues.
Angry 'cause he knew
Renko was a cop?
Maybe.
We have a bead on this guy?
ERIC: Last known address
was in Burbank.
Evicted two months ago.
No forwarding.
Contact local
law enforcement.
Tell them to put out
an APB on Mr. Henderson.
CALLEN: Eric, run a scan
for facial rec hits
and credit card activity.
On it.
You got something on your mind?
Lots, Agent Callen.
Lots.
(sighs)
(alarm beeping)
Systolic down to 78.
Get him down to 100%,
non-rebreather.
Pulse 130 and thready.
Doctor, w-what's
going on?
We got it handled.
BP 78/56.
Give him two
liters of saline.
Set up for
ultrasound.
Running a 12-lead.
Pulse ox up to
82 on 100%.
(indistinct, overlapping
conversation)
Soon as he stabilizes,
prep for a central line to
draw 50 of tenecteplase.
SAM:
Seems like some of
the murders are connected and
others aren't connected at all.
DEEKS: Maybe whoever was shooting
had a plan when they started.
Then they got a taste for it
and the plan
didn't matter anymore.
So the killings became random.
Maybe.
But I don't think so.
Why?
I wish I knew.
(phone ringing)
Yeah.
Yeah, she's right here.
Hello.
CALLEN: Something in my
gut tells me
there's more
going on here.
Yes, Miss Blye.
CALLEN: This case is complicated--
almost too complicated.
(murmuring): There's something
that we're missing.
Something
simple...
Thank you.
Hetty?
Agent Renko...
(clears throat)
...had a cardiac arrest
right after surgery.
There was nothing
they could do for him.
You decorate this
yourselves
or did you bring in
Extreme Makeover: Home Edition?
Hal's a cop, isn't he?
Hal's name was
NCIS Special Agent Mike Renko.
CALLEN: And he's dead
now, Mara.
Shouldn't take you long to
decorate a cell at Valley State.
SAM: I'm sure you
could try
many different styles
over the next 20 years.
Here's the deal, Mara...
They're never gonna
make her talk.
Dysfunctional, militant
family like that--
she'll go to jail
out of spite.
Listen, I
know I didn't
know Renko as
well as you guys,
but if you want to talk
about it, I can...
I think that it's best if
we focus on the interrogation.
Right, of course.
I'm just saying
that if it's...
Of course.
CALLEN:
So what's it gonna be?
I need a smoke.
No. What you need to do is help
us with this investigation.
SAM: A federal agent
has been murdered.
You have any idea how much
trouble you could be in?
I didn't have anything
to do with that.
Then help us.
Did I ever say I wouldn't?
(sighs)
Accounting files on my computer
go back to 2003.
There are handwritten
ledgers before that
when Rich opened
the place in '98.
On the surface,
everything looks legit,
but it's not.
What are we
talking about?
Receipts and invoices.
I'd say at least 15% are fudged.
SAM:
Will you walk us
through the paperwork?
Sure, but you probably
won't need much help.
Snooki could tell you
something's wonky.
Rich thought he was
some kind of
criminal mastermind.
He was a moron.
You didn't approve
when your mom married him.
She made a lot of
dumb choices in her life.
Marrying Rich
was top of the list.
She wasn't exactly
a charter member of Mensa, but
compared to those inbred idiots,
she was frickin'
Stephen Hawking.
And you worked for them.
I didn't know anything was wrong
until I started.
But you stayed anyway.
I've got a kid,
an upside-down mortgage
and health insurance bills
that run a grand a month.
Rich paid more than
anyone else would have.
He paid you
to keep your mouth shut.
And I did.
Then I guess he wasn't
as big of an idiot as you say.
Rich confided in Renko
that he was worried
there was a bad apple
among his people.
Someone who could
bring them down.
Did Renko believe
he was being baited?
He didn't think so.
His family--
have they been informed?
My office is handling it.
Did you get anything
off Rich Mayfield's cell?
Excuse me.
Your office is what?
I made the call myself, Hetty.
Now, if it's not
too inconvenient...
ERIC:
Um, well, there...
Mayfield got a text on his cell
this morning from the buyer.
The deal is supposed
to happen soon.
Any indication where?
No.
And I wasn't able
to trace the cell.
It seems like
it's a burn phone.
(tablet beeps)
Whoever it belongs to
disabled the
GPS tracking.
So we're in the dark.
ERIC: Whoa.
Someone may have just
turned a light on.
Walter Henderson, our missing
Point Blank employee,
just used his credit card to
rent a motel room in Sun Valley.
SAM:
I don't think so.
I'm helping you take down
an illegal gun operation
and you're gonna go
all Rob Reiner on me? Serious?
(cell phone ringing)
Yeah, Eric?
Henderson just used his
credit card to rent a motel.
All right, send me the details
on the location.
We just got a lead on
Point Blank's missing employee,
Walter Henderson.
What do we need to know
about him?
Besides being
a first-class douche,
Walter is not exactly the
poster boy for mental health.
Bipolar,
doesn't take his meds.
Another great combination, huh?
Said he didn't like
the way they "made him feel."
Never mind how it made
anyone else feel
when he was off them.
Like he could snap
at any time.
He'd be happy
and joking
one minute,
then fly into a rage
and beat the crap out of
the filing cabinet, copier.
Really made the customers feel
at ease in a store full of guns.
He had sniper training.
Washed out
'cause he couldn't
hack the math.
He was a damned good shot.
Saw him at the range myself.
Had no problem doing
anything Rich told him to.
And word was
that Rich had him do
some really nasty stuff.
Not that I'm sure
it matters to you...
...I really liked Hal.
He was different
from the rest.
(door closes)
MAN:
Oh, I hear you.
But that's just politics,
ain't it?
I mean, you can't trust
any of them, if you ask me.
(clears throat)
Well, 65 a night.
Or 30 for an hour.
Oh. I got to go.
Yeah?
This man.
Oh.
Room 22, second floor.
The guy's a friggin' psycho.
Case you haven't noticed, this
ain't exactly the Four Seasons.
Even for this place,
guy's a friggin' psycho.
You want to
explain that?
Well, he-he's nervous.
He's on edge.
I-I don't know if it's
drug nervous or PTSD nervous
or just nervous nervous,
but the guy's a...
BOTH: A friggin' psycho.
Mm-hmm.
Room have a back way out?
Window.
You might want to stay inside.
No arguments here.
Key.
Mm?
To the room.
Oh.
Sure, sure.
DEEKS: It's gonna be hard for you
to believe, Kens,
but this is actually
one motel that I have
no prior
experience with.
Yep. Never been here
for an undercover op or
an under-the-cover op--
which is actually much more
fun for all parties involved.
But it's kind of
amazing, really...
Deeks.
Sorry.
I have a tendency
of using comedy
to diffuse tension
in situations...
Shut up, Deeks.
All right.
And thank you.
Manager says Henderson's second-
floor room has a rear window.
Why don't you two cover the back
in case he's crazy enough to jump.
On it.
(lock beeps)
Federal agents!
Sam.
G.
Head shot.
(sirens wailing in distance)
He's gone into rigor.
He must have been shot
right after he checked in.
Which means the shooter
is long gone.
Any number of buildings that
shot could've come from.
Sniper shoots sniper.
Let's say Henderson
shot Earl Mayfield and Renko.
Everyone knows
he's unstable.
So Rich has
someone else make sure
he doesn't go blabbing
about it in his manic phase.
Except we took out Rich
before this went down.
He could've ordered
the hit before.
DEEKS: I'm having two
random thoughts,
first of which is the movie
Enemy at the Gates
with the two snipers
that try to shoot--
That's not important.
I digress.
Secondly, does anyone else smell
the proverbial rat?
Mara said these guys
weren't geniuses,
but this doesn't make sense,
even for them.
t's assume that Ballistics
will show that the bullet
that killed Walter Henderson
matches those
that shot Earl Mayfield
and Renko.
So Rich thought his employee,
Conrad Weaver,
was the bad apple, so he sends
his nephew, Earl, to kill him.
Only, Earl had information
on his cell phone
that suggested that Mr. Renko
was the bad apple.
Which doesn't make much sense,
but it is motive
for two of the shootings.
Well, if it is the same gun,
it's most likely the same person
who killed all of them.
So then it would make sense
that someone outside of
the Mayfield organization
was responsible
for all three shootings.
Or maybe Renko wasn't shot
because Mayfield suspected
his cover was fake.
Maybe there was another reason.
HETTY:
We know for a fact
that Rich Mayfield was ready
to shoot Mr. Renko himself.
So who has a motive
outside of Point Blank
for the three shootings?
Someone with a grudge
against the Mayfields.
Well, if you're in
the illegal weapons business,
your list of potential enemies
is bound to be a long one.
(tablet beeps)
ERIC:
A text just came
into Rich
Mayfield's cell.
It's our buyer.
He's got a time and place
for the deal: East L.A.
four hours from now.
Well, we need to make that meet.
He's gonna want to see the
weapons before he makes payment.
Only, we don't know
what they are.
My guess is that he was
going to sell him AR-15s.
Two dozen were sold
over a three-week period
to various individuals.
Individuals who probably
don't even exist.
We're lucky to sell one a month.
The receipts are in
Rich's handwriting.
I've seen him work the
counter maybe twice.
Okay, well,
if the sales were bogus
and Rich didn't know when
the deal was gonna go down...
He hid them.
KENSI:
Yeah.
So where'd Richie boy hide them?
There's a gun vault,
but even he wouldn't be
stupid enough to put them there.
CALLEN:
Any unusual activity
at the shop
or here at the range?
Maintenance? Construction?
A few weeks ago,
there was some kind of problem
with the backstop
on one of the firing lanes.
Rich usually has
one of the guys
take care of that stuff.
This time, he did it himself.
I don't know which is the
greater Henrietta Lange legend,
her obsession with exotic teas
or her capacity
for single malts.
I need to know
what's going on, Owen.
You were on your way
to Washington.
Must have been important
for you to leave an active op.
Yeah, it was.
There's a problem
with one of our agents.
Is it one of mine?
I can't tell you
more than that, Hetty.
There was a time...
when you would've
told me everything.
Well, that was
a long time ago.
And we were
different then.
I miss those times.
I don't think
you miss those times, Owen.
you miss them at all.
Here.
It's loose.
Got something.
Phew.
Well, in the words of
Monty Hall, let's make a deal.
The buyer wants you to
meet in that parking lot.
Which makes us sitting ducks
if that sniper
is on that bridge
or any of those buildings.
Which is why I'm sending in
teams to sweep them
and posting our own snipers.
He spots us and gets spooked,
we might never find him.
HETTY:
You think the alternative
is worth another one
of our agents being killed?
We don't know that the buyer
is the sniper.
CALLEN:
At this point,
we don't know
what we don't know.
Do we?
HETTY:
This is not
up for debate, Owen.
Either our sniper team goes in
or no one does.
All right.
KENSI:
The parking lot is wide open.
There's no way our sniper team
can cover every single angle.
Got to take our chances.
Just like Renko.
ERIC: Teams have cleared
the surrounding buildings.
Snipers are taking
rooftop positions.
I see three.
Hey, you Rich?
Yeah.
I'm Jeff.
Brent and Ari.
Carlo told us to help you
guys unload the crates.
He's gonna pull the truck up
in a couple minutes--
just went to get
some Starbucks.
Starbucks.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Should've asked if you guys
wanted anything.
I think we've
just been had.
Look, we just haul stuff
to make some extra cash.
Put an ad on
Craigslist,
this guy Carlo wanted us to
help him with a couple crates.
Picked us up
in his truck.
Then he went to Starbucks.
Yeah.
I mean, that's
what he said.
Is it drugs?
It's drugs, isn't it?
(sighs)
We didn't know!
Hey, look, I'll be
straight up with you.
Campus cops wrote me up for
some weed, but I have a card.
That's it, I swear.
Eric.
ERIC: All three are students
at community college.
No criminal records.
Jeff Foster was cited
by campus security
for smoking marijuana on campus,
though he has a medical card.
Low-level anxiety disorder,
early onset arthritis
and foreign accent syndrome.
Impressive.
They said the guy
that hired them
was driving
a rental moving truck.
Where the hell is he?
ERIC:
We're on it.
NELL:
Got him.
A half hour ago,
parked on Northview,
two blocks from the parking lot.
Can you see the driver?
Barely. I can't really make out
what he looks like.
Either this guy's
really lucky or he knew
exactly where the camera was.
Nell, where was
Earl Mayfield shot?
Where specifically on his body?
Coroner's report states
the right mandible.
The jaw.
What about Henderson?
Same.
And Renko?
Upper jaw.
All three shot in the mouth.
You the cop who shot me?
Don't shoot at me next time.
The bullet is still in my head.
My mouth doesn't work.
Either this guy's really lucky
or he knew exactly
where the camera was.
I'm just the driver.
Picked us up
in his truck.
MAN:
Agent G. Callen,
I know where you work,
I know where you live,
I know who you care about.
One day, I'm going to kill you.
Soon.
That's all I live for.
It's all I care about.
(computer beeps)
Guys, our buyer just turned
the GPS on his phone back on.
Lucky break.
No.
No, he did it
on purpose.
He wants us to find him.
Who?
The Chameleon.
It's been him all along.
Where is he, Eric?
Left out of the parking
lot, three blocks.
Pulling up pictometry.
All right, looks like
some sort of industrial area.
First gate, turn right.
ERIC:
400 yards and closing.
DEEKS:
Looks like a DOT dumping ground.
You good?
Yeah.
All right.
100 yards directly
in front of you,
you should see him any second.
Got him.
Just a cell phone.
What the hell is he doing?
(cell phone ringing)
I need to take this.
Put the phone down
now!
You need me to take this,
Agent Callen.
(cell phone beeps)
WOMAN (screams):
Callen!
Help me!
(woman panting)
What is it?
Pulling it up.
There's someone in it.
It can't be.
Dear God.
It's Hunter.
Help me!
I guess you don't want
to talk to her after all.
(panting)
So be it.
(cell phone beeps)
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪ NCIS: LA 3x24 ♪
Sans Voir (2)
Original Air Date on May 15, 2012
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Angry?
Not angry.
Well, I have to admit, I am
more than a little pissed.
This wasn't supposed
to happen to me.
I never promised you
that it wouldn't.
Doesn't make
you guilt-free.
No, it doesn't.
Gives you something
to cling onto, though.
A slippery rock
in a rising tide.
If not angry, then what?
I feel like I'm drowning.
Beats being blown up.
What am I?
The fourth.
There are more
on the other side, of course.
You could stack the bodies
like cordwood.
Who was
number three?
Renko.
Number two was Dom.
Sullivan was the first.
Do you talk
to them, too?
From time to time.
You think I'm going mad?
Oh, probably.
Do you remember
when you picked me up
from the orphanage?
I didn't let go of your hand
for three days.
I was seven and I...
Stop it.
Too soon for fond memories,
Henrietta?
You always were
an impertinent little brat.
That's why
you loved me.
Too much.
He's not talking.
The son of a bitch
who did this.
There's no explanation
for his behavior?
No, doesn't make
any sense.
He leads us there,
kills Hunter...
and gives himself up.
He hasn't uttered
a single word.
I'm gonna hand him over
to Callen.
What?
You think that's a mistake?
This whole thing's
a mistake, Owen.
Who were you talking to
just now?
The dead.
Let's start with
your full name.
Okay, how about
your first name?
Let me guess, you
want a lawyer?
Sounds like he doesn't
want a lawyer, Sam.
That's fine by me.
What do you want?
The right to
remain silent?
That's fine, we'll
give you that.
It's not gonna
help you.
Because we both know,
sooner or later you
will talk to me.
'Cause that's what this
is all about, isn't it?
You and me.
(door opens)
Do you have a minute?
What time is it?
The time.
Ten after 6:00.
In exactly six hours
from now,
I'll be walking out of here,
Agent Callen.
And you'll be holding
the door for me.
(chuckles)
GRANGER:
Agent Callen,
six weeks ago an NSA analyst
named Kelvin Atley went missing.
After he disappeared,
the NSA discovered
Atley had used his clearance
to access
a highly classified file,
code-named Cherokee.
Nell.
NELL:
Cherokee is the cover name
of an asset
with access
to the highest echelons
of Iran's military.
In particular,
Cherokee has supplied
critical intelligence
on Iran's nuclear program.
Atley knows everything
about Cherokee,
including
his real name.
Agent Hunter
got an anonymous tip
about Atley in Paris,
tracked him to New York
two days ago and disappeared.
You think the anonymous tip
came from the Chameleon?
Looks that way.
Then how do we know
he has Atley?
We don't, but if he does,
we need to get him back
before he compromises
our man in Tehran.
How does Renko fit into this?
As far as we can see,
he doesn't.
I don't know
why he killed Renko.
CALLEN: Maybe he
was just trying
to get our attention.
Why don't you tell us
about Kelvin Atley.
I'd rather tell you
about the Mayfields.
A family of gun runners?
Unfinished business
from five years ago.
A mistake to ever trust them.
Thank you for taking care
of that for me.
You set them up.
Just enough for Agent Renko
to get interested.
I thought they would find out
he was an NCIS agent,
but they didn't.
So you tipped them off.
Then tipped us off
that Renko's identity
had been compromised.
Setting the board.
So, why'd you shoot him?
First move.
You countered
by coming after me.
Second move.
I killed Agent Hunter.
You countered
by bringing me here.
This is a game to you?
You play chess, Agent Callen?
A little.
The term, sans voir.
Playing blindfolded.
You are in a
secure facility.
Who's the blind one?
You are.
Really?
And whose move is it?
Mine.
A file-sharing Web site?
The password is...
"Muley Hassan."
ERIC: All right,
it's a public Web site.
You upload your file,
and anyone with the password
can download it.
Muley Hassan.
Mean anything to anyone?
Last emirate of Granada
in the 15th century.
Didn't happen
to play chess, did he?
Famously.
He would use prisoners
from the royal dungeons
as his pieces,
and if one of the pieces
were captured,
he'd have the prisoner
beheaded on the spot.
Chess club.
(beeping)
All right, download's finished.
It's a video file.
Play it, Eric.
I made a mess of this one.
I'm sorry that I let you down.
CHAMELEON:
Go ahead, tell them.
He-he wants me to tell you
that his name is Marcel Janvier.
He is a French national,
born in Lyon.
He is holding Kelvin Atley.
If you don't give him
what he wants,
he'll put Atley on the market,
and he'll sell him
to the highest bidder.
CHAMELEON:
Tell them what I need.
He wants $50 million
deposited in his bank account
by noon today.
He'll give you
the account details.
(speaking foreign language)
GRANGER:
Get that tape analyzed, Eric.
Does anyone recognize
the language?
Romani.
It... it was a number.
Like a phone number.
KENSI:
How exactly does he think
that he can kill someone
in front of us,
and then expect us
to let him go?
Because Janvier--
if that is his name--
thinks we'll have
no other choice.
Janvier for Atley.
He wants to do
a prisoner exchange.
The number
is a cell phone.
GPS?
Turned off.
Burn phone--
number was activated
three days ago.
All right, find out
where it was bought.
Maybe we'll be lucky
with the store's
security footage
or a credit card receipt.
Hetty.
We are not letting this guy go.
No.
Indeed, we're not.
That's not a decision
we get to make,
Agent Callen.
Sometimes I really
hate that guy.
Only sometimes?
How'd you get to Atley?
Same way I got to Hunter.
Same way I got to Renko.
Same way I got to you,
Agent Callen.
Everyone has a weakness.
So what was Atley's?
Right now,
you've convinced yourself
that you will not
hand me over for him.
Predictable response
based on your
emotional attachment
to your dead friends.
Those who will ultimately
make the decision
won't share that attachment.
Who do you think's gonna
want Atley the most, Sam?
Hmm.
Chinese?
Chinese would
pay for him.
Mid-level analyst, top
security clearance.
They'd have to believe he's
gonna know something they don't.
Yeah? How about the Israelis?
Now, the Israelis would
definitely be interested.
Guy like Atley
could spill
all kinds of classified intel
about Iran that we don't share.
Bet you Tel Aviv is on their way
to the ATM right now.
So you like the Israelis?
They're definitely in the hunt.
But I think there's someone
who wants Atley
even more than the Israelis.
Iran.
They got a traitor
in the house.
Atley knows
who it is.
Tehran.
That's top dollar right there.
So we don't buy him, Iran does.
You abduct him?
Blackmail.
A woman?
A girl.
Underage.
He was very willing
to believe me
when I said
we would be partners.
That's a nice try.
But Atley's gay.
He thought he kept it
a secret from the NSA,
but it's noted
in his personnel file.
Welcome to the game,
Agent Callen.
If you'd shared
operational details,
this would never
have happened.
Your assumption, Henrietta,
that your involvement would have
resulted in a different outcome
is egotistical,
and it exposes
your greatest weakness.
I should have been informed.
You didn't need to know.
(computer beeping)
ERIC: Uh, guys?
Um, I mean...
Cell phone's been turned on.
And we have a GPS fix.
What do you got, Eric?
Cell phone's been turned on.
GPS puts it at an abandoned
freight warehouse downtown.
Address is
uploading now.
Why wouldn't Janvier
edit out what she said?
Either he doesn't care or
he wanted us to chase it down.
Like we have
a choice.
Don't lose that signal, Eric.
GRANGER:
Not you, Agent Callen.
Want you to keep
the pressure on Janvier.
Don't test me, Agent Callen.
(monitor beeps)
DEEKS:
There's no people.
This place is like a ghost town.
I don't think
I like this at all.
(sighs) Me neither.
You let me go once.
I didn't know who you were.
But now you do.
And you will still
have to let me go.
That's not gonna happen.
Picture's up.
I'll take the back.
Copy.
How's your mouth?
Mm, I still get headaches.
Good.
I find the sea air helps.
You slipped up the
day I shot you.
It won't happen again.
You sure about that?
Are you?
Kens.
(cell phone ringing)
Sometimes you have to sacrifice
a piece to win an adage.
You need to know your
opponent's next move
before he does.
Eric!
Get them out of there!
It's a trap!
Guys!
Guys, get out of
the building now!
(cell phone continues ringing)
Go! Go!
(grunting weakly)
You okay?
Yeah. You?
(groaning)
Sam.
Sam!
(coughing)
(sighs)
(sirens approaching)
(door opens)
You want to kill someone,
try me!
In fact, here.
Use this.
All you got to do
is squeeze the trigger.
Take it.
Take it!
And give you an excuse
to break my neck?
I don't need another excuse.
You value the lives
of Agent Hunter and Agent Renko
less than the others.
You kill me...
and I win.
Stand down, Mr. Callen.
I said stand down.
Was, um...
anyone killed?
No.
Pity.
Put that thing away before
I take it off you
and shoot the bastard myself.
He was speaking Romani,
wasn't he?
Oh, he knew
what Hunter said
the minute she said it.
So he planted the number,
made her think it was important,
then he used her to set us up.
Yeah.
The last time I lost an agent,
I handed my resignation
to Director Vance.
And I lifted it
out of his pocket
and I gave it back to you.
It's still in my desk.
Only, now I've lost
two more agents.
She was special?
You know I don't have favorites,
Mr. Callen.
You telling me that
after all these years...
(sighs)
Could you see her,
her face, at the end?
(gasps)
(sighs)
Did she know?
Was she afraid?
Angry and defiant.
And yeah...
she was afraid.
How long did you know her?
Almost 30 years.
Not as long as I've known you.
But like you,
I found her
in an orphanage.
Any other orphanage kids out
there you want to tell me about?
She said something else
at the end, didn't she?
On the tape,
when she gave the number.
"I'm sorry."
She said, "I'm sorry."
She was saying it to me.
We're not letting this guy
out of here.
We're not letting
them exchange
this guy for Atley.
And if we don't
and Atley shares his secrets,
a very brave man in Tehran
will almost certainly die.
Do you really think
we have a choice, Mr. Callen?
You should have let me
shoot him.
Okay.
Traffic cams.
One?
One traffic cam. Really?
Okay, so it's a red-light camera
a block from the warehouse.
Let's try pulling up the footage
immediately after the bomb
was detonated.
Oh, wait.
Go back.
(horn honking)
Whoa. That guy's
in a hurry.
Maybe we just got lucky.
Plug the details
into Kaleidoscope.
Let's see where this guy went.
Yeah.
Hey, Sam?
SAM:
Yeah.
Sam, I got something for you.
What is it, Eric?
Yeah, we had a car
run a red light
at the end of the block
less than half a minute
after the bomb was detonated.
Black M-Series Mercedes.
License plate
is two-Sierra-Alpha...
Quebec-three-two-one?
Uh, how did you know that?
'Cause I'm staring right at it.
Eric, you might want
to run that plate.
I'm on it.
12:00.
Near the kid
with the skateboard.
Maybe.
Could be.
That's them.
Go.
(tires squealing)
(horns honking)
(tires screeching)
That's a giant train
about six inches to your left.
Deeks, shut up.
SAM: Can't make it!
You can't make it!
Federal agents!
Get out of the car!
Put your hands where
we can see them!
DEEKS:
Get against the train.
Put your hands
against the train!
Move!
Okay, the car
is registered to...
Not good.
(cell phone ringing)
Yeah, Eric.
KENSI:
Look forward.
What?
No mistake?
No mistake.
Car is registered
to the Israeli Consulate.
Sam, you're going to have
to let them go.
They were at the warehouse.
They tried to get away.
If they weren't involved,
then at the very least,
they may have seen something.
GRANGER:
I understand, Agent Hanna,
but I'm telling you,
cut them loose.
State Department
has confirmed their identities.
They're both employed
by the Israeli Consulate.
Mossad?
Probably.
We've got to let them go.
Let them go.
That's an order, Agent Hanna.
Yes, sir.
You're going to be charged
with the attempted murder
of a federal agent.
You need to speak
to your State Department.
We did.
This is an outrage.
Two federal agents are dead,
and our allies
are refusing to tell us
what the hell is going on.
Don't talk to me about outrage.
It will never reach court.
Probably not.
But we could drag
this thing out
three, maybe four months.
Find you a nice,
quiet corner in hell,
have you begging
to be sent to Gitmo.
I assure you, we had no idea
this was going to happen.
If we knew,
we would have
warned you.
What were you
doing there?
The same thing you were doing.
Looking for someone.
Who?
(train whistle blowing)
Cuff them.
Done.
I am going to make this
as uncomfortable as possible.
He's a French national.
We lost track of him
yesterday morning.
The last place we saw
him was the warehouse.
So you came back
and staked it out.
We had no idea they'd
wired the building.
We got out fast
and circled back
to find out
what we could.
And then you saw us.
Easy.
If you have more questions,
please submit them
in writing to our embassy.
KENSI:
Have a nice day.
Tell me you got it, Deeks.
Oh, yeah, I got it.
They're going to be so pissed
when they check
that camera.
Good.
GRANGER: Do I want to know
where you got these from?
Probably not.
I count six guys.
CALLEN:
Janvier got himself a new crew.
Find them, we find Atley.
Who's our mystery man?
NELL:
We don't have a clear shot.
He's either obscured
or looking the wrong way
at the right time.
Photos are time
and date stamped,
and Santa Monica Pier
is a tourist hot spot.
A lot of people with
a lot of cameras.
We'll trawl the
social media sites,
see if we can pull
together a panorama.
Janvier's got
good protection.
They're obviously pros.
What about their cars?
Just a few
partial license plates.
I could start
a Kaleidoscope search.
KENSI: Narrow down the
search parameters.
Instead of looking
for individual cars,
look for all of them
in the same place.
Say, parked outside a house
or in a parking lot.
It would be best if we
could narrow the search area.
Nell, start your search
on the coast-- Malibu.
Work your way south.
Janvier likes the sea air.
Will do.
Agent G. Callen.
You want to know
what the "G" stands for?
Of course you
do-- Gary.
Gaston.
Gustav.
(chuckles)
I've had so many names,
and you just want one.
Marcel Janvier.
One of many?
Why me?
You shot me.
But you came back.
Curiosity.
I almost caught you.
But you didn't.
And don't make the mistake
of thinking
that I'm caught this time.
Whose move?
Mine.
Choose carefully.
You don't have many left.
Come on.
(beeping)
Guys, I got a hit.
All three cars,
same location.
It looks like a condo
in Marina Del Rey.
Okay, we're taking
a tactical team.
Call Callen. Let's move.
SAM: Their cars
are still here.
We know if they are?
Condo manager identified
Kelvin Atley from a photo.
18th floor penthouse,
short-term rental.
Atley plus seven others.
We get Atley, it's game over.
We play our game, G, not his.
Either way, he loses.
Deeks.
Yeah.
Keys to the front door.
Done.
We're clear.
No wires.
It ain't going
to go bang.
(pumps shotgun)
Clear.
Looks like somebody
beat us to it.
Atley?
KENSI: Negative.
DEEKS: No.
He's not here; he's gone.
Guys?
In here.
So we've got almost 100 photos
from social media sites
taken at Santa Monica Pier
that fit our time window.
Whole range of different
cameras, different qualities.
Not to mention
different subjects.
That a fish-eye lens?
For his sake, I hope so.
Okay, downloading the photos
into the application.
Let the magic begin.
Well, lots
of tourists.
And every one of them
a budding photographer.
There's Janvier.
And there is
our mystery man.
Let's come in from
the other side.
Love this technology.
Mystery man has a face.
Uh-huh.
Can you zoom in?
Snip him and we'll run him
through photo-rec,
give our mystery
face a name.
If this guy's in the
database, we'll find him.
Consider him snipped.
Oh, damn.
What?
Now I feel like
a chili dog.
Yes, sir, I understand.
No, I have no idea
how that could happen.
I will make it a priority, sir.
The Israelis
are pissed.
The undersecretary at
the State Department
wants a full
investigation.
He also asked me about
a missing SD card from a camera.
I told him we didn't know
anything about that.
Have you ever come up against
someone like this before?
No.
He's evil.
He's many things.
But there's only one thing
he's not and should be.
Dead.
(door opens)
So, we're all
out of time.
They've authorized
the exchange.
We give Janvier what he wants,
we let him go, we get Atley,
and the identity of our
asset in Iran is safe.
You're gonna let this happen?
We are all gonna let this
happen, Agent Callen.
So Hunter and Renko
died for nothing?
They died to protect an asset
that could be the only thing
standing between us and
another war in the Middle East.
There will always be another war
in the Middle East!
Sorry to interrupt.
What is it, Eric?
We've identified the man Janvier
met at Santa Monica Pier.
His name is Naseem Vaziri.
He's Iranian.
NELL: He runs an international
air freight business,
and the NSA believes
he has close ties
to Iranian intelligence.
What if Atley
already told Janvier
the name of the asset in Iran?
Janvier then sells the name
to this Iranian, Vaziri,
before he sells
Atley back to us.
Janvier gets paid
from both sides,
Cherokee gets compromised.
Cherokee could've already
been picked up in Tehran!
They could be torturing
him right now!
Eric, find out
if there have been
any fund transfers
into Janvier's account
in the past 48 hours.
It's too late;
we have to proceed.
We need to get Atley back,
and that's the price we pay.
The price we pay?!
You need to let this go.
He killed our people!
Our people!
We are out of time,
Agent Callen!
And we don't have another plan!
HETTY:
I'm sorry, Mr. Callen.
I'm sorry.
Copy of the
transfer documents.
$50 million
wired to the account number you
gave us in the Cayman Islands.
And binding agreement
promising you
immunity from
prosecution
signed by the Attorney
General of the United States.
Phone.
And a glass of water, please.
(dialing)
Get some water?
(speaking French)
Very good.
Tell them to bring Atley.
My move.
JANVIER:
Straight ahead until
I give you further directions.
Any clue as to
where they're going?
They're heading
towards downtown.
Turn right.
(tires screeching)
Any further fund transfers
into his account?
Still working it.
Take the next left.
Stop.
This is it.
The news team
is a strategic move
to keep you honest,
Agent Callen.
Where is he?
The SUV across
the park.
You can send
your people to get him.
You okay?
NELL:
I'm looking for eyes.
I got a traffic cam.
This is messed up.
Yep.
Nothing we can change
about it now.
That's Atley.
He's drugged.
ERIC:
We're in.
Janvier's bank account.
Transfer early yesterday.
$50 million channeled through
a bank in Moscow.
Where did
the transfer originate?
Tehran.
(sighs)
So, Mr. Callen was right.
No turning back now.
(garbled radio transmissions)
No.
No, this is
not happening.
Sam!
G, no!
You're not
going anywhere.
Are you gonna shoot me
for the whole world to see?
Pull up that video feed.
One can never be
too careful, Agent Callen.
G, don't do this.
Let him go.
(tires screech, siren whoops)
Federal agents!
We've got this covered!
Back down!
Put the gun down!
Lower your weapon!
NCIS! Federal agents!
(distorted, fading):
Stand down!
He's a federal agent!
(voices overlapping)
OFFICER (distorted):
Put the weapon down!
SAM:
Step back!
(explosion)
(voices distorted, overlapping)
(panting)
(echoing): Your move.
KENSI:
Don't shoot!
He's with us!
Drop your weapon, G.
Drop your weapon.
Easy!
Move!
Against the van!
Back off.
Relax.
Hands behind your back.
Anything you say
can and will be
used against you
in a court of law.
You have the right
to an attorney,
to have an attorney present
during any questioning.
If you cannot afford
an attorney,
one will be provided...
♪ ♪
♪ I was hoping
for the phoenix to be rising ♪
♪ Above the roof ♪
♪ You were waiting for me
to make the next move ♪
♪ And I thought ♪
♪ That I knew the way ♪
♪ And I thought for a second
that you were gonna stay ♪
♪ Now I found another fork
in the road ♪
♪ And I'm just guessing
as I go ♪
♪ What the next move ♪
♪ Was gonna be ♪
♪ Next move ♪
♪ What's it gonna be? ♪
== sync, corrected by elderman ==